---
author: avastmick
comments: true
date: 2013-04-19 22:00:08+00:00
layout: post
slug: change
title: Change
wordpress_id: 2400
categories:
- Ideas
- Old Days
- Philosophy
tags:
- Ideas
- Innovation
- Law of Life
- Old Days
- Philosophy
---

_Change is the only constant in life; to contrive stability is to invite crisis._

Much of [Old Days](http://avastmick.org/2013/02/21/old-days/) wisdom (thinking) states that stability, consistency and uniformity are desirable states. Literature terms this state balance or equilibrium and all things bad come from imbalance; it perceives change as the agent of chaos.

We too feel secure with balance and stability: we crave the removal of the statistical possibilities of danger or harm. To do so we seek constraint: we constrain our behaviour, our activities and our thinking.

This approach to life is also fed to us by others, reinforcing the concept. Campaigns educate us to conform, to surrender freedoms and inhibit our behaviour are commonplace. The Old Days has a long history of encouraging constraint and it continues even with our easy access to information to the contrary. The stronger the grip of this Old Days thinking the stronger the message. The logical progression of the concept of constraint is reversal - returning to a previous state.

For example, look at the message that is exported from modern-day Saudi Arabia that states we would be morally improved by a return to simpler (medieval) times where rigid rules of behaviour ensure a better world. Only under these (harsh) rules can order and balance be maintained. Similar applications of such principles have been attempted in non-religious contexts in China or Cambodia. The consensus in these ideologies is that the modern world is corrupt and overly complex: chaos. To solve the problem lets throw everything away and start again afresh.

Is this good? Given these extreme examples, no. It cannot be: we cannot unthink, or unlearn. But what about the general principle? What about the idea that our goal should be some ideal state of order? Surely that is a good idea, a noble goal.

The evidence of life around us is that it is not. What is certain is that we are not apart from the world we live in. We too are ruled by the rule of Nature. The Universe we inhabit is volatile and ever changing. There is no example of a state of certain equilibrium - the only constant is change itself. Any order we see is a trick. We live in the midst of chaos, only the fool could think that this could be brought to order by our hand.

We shouldn't be swayed by the propaganda of fear constraining us. This can only limit our potential, as I have [previously commented](http://avastmick.org/2013/03/12/fear-of-the-new/). Nor though should limit our attraction for the opposite.

In a volatile world, where change is all about us, making our existence uncertain, we contrive a fierce desire for the opposite: stability and order. As I have said [elsewhere](http://avastmick.org/2013/03/25/living-on-the-precipice-of-doom/), this is a key driver to our ingenuity as a species. The tension between our fear of change and our desire for stability is significant to who we are. Where we sit on this continuum defines our personalities.

We shouldn't focus on the (frightening) chaos and the change it brings; nor should we focus on the (vain) possibility of stability; we should focus on the tension between. That is where we live.

_Maybe this is the right interpretation of the romantic concept of Natural Balance. Living in the meeting point of chaos and order. Right there in the middle of it all._
