---
author: avastmick
comments: true
date: 2013-02-27 21:00:26+00:00
layout: post
slug: volatile
title: Consuming the volatile
wordpress_id: 19
categories:
- Internet
- Old Days
tags:
- Crap
- Innovation
- Products
- Volatility
---

Stuff is better now than in the [Old Days](http://mickclarke.org/2013/02/21/old-days/). _The Old Days sold mostly crap._

I like comparing the "Old Days" and (_since)_ the Internet. This is important, because we are living through the transition and largely oblivious to its effects upon us.

We are like parents only reminded of the continual development of their young children when stung by the changes seen in a video recorded a year or so before. The difference between the Old Days and (these days since) the Internet is vast.

_I__t really cannot be understated._

Products, the stuff you buy, are maybe the most affected by the change. We are in a better place today than in the past. We have at last some control over our choices.

Old Days, bricks and mortar, shops are no longer a strong force in consumption choice. The physical curation of things, laying them out for you to choose, in small neat discrete sets is almost quaint now (though still seen as valuable). Choice there is limited, constrained by space and stocking levels. Choice was constrained. Choice was contrived. 

Remember too when we would buy a _paper_ magazine to assess which product was better? These were regionally localised views of products, curtailed choices, recommending for your (limited) consumption.

I used to buy hi-fi magazines, each recommending the best speakers (or whatever), giving each 5 or less stars. It was (is, some people still buy them) so phoney, so biased. Blatantly so. One magazine would give a product brand 5 stars, another only 3. The competing magazine would give that 3-star product brand 5 stars, and so on. Of course Hi-Fi magazines, like the products they reviewed, were expensive. Most people would buy only one, often unaware of bias. We were ignorant, we were unknowingly happy that our real choice was curtailed.

What all this meant was a huge lack of _**volatility**_ in the market. Companies could tie up the market for years, selling poor, faulty, out-of-date products to ignorant punters. They would buy the affection of reviewers, create monopolies in shops through exclusive agreements. The cash tills rang out their love for the mediocre. Corporations grew unopposed, consolidating their wealth, making them able to tie up more of the market, causing more inertia. Products got worse.

Good products did exist sure. But often no one bought them (or rarely). (often) No one knew they existed. (often) They were made in parts of the world that were outside of Trading Agreements; those intricate mechanisms designed to protect the local producer from volatility of markets. We were left with crap. Crap cars, crap electronics, crap clothes. And we paid a rich sum for the it. Corporations and governments conspired to ensure we enjoyed our it.

In the Old Days they sold the crap out of the crap. We were _HAPPY_ though, weren't we?

(No)
