---
author: avastmick
comments: true
date: 2013-02-21 03:45:21+00:00
layout: post
slug: old-days
title: Old Days - before the Internet
wordpress_id: 44
categories:
- Internet
- Old Days
tags:
- Economics
- Internet
- Old Days
---

I use the term Old Days to mean _any time_ before the Internet.

Why? There was a lot that came before the Internet and frankly I couldn't be bothered with some ingenious categorisation of the various epochs of pre-Internet-ness. It's just the Old Days.

Oddly, some people still live in the Old Days. Some can't help it; like those palaeolithic tribes that still live a simple, hunter-gatherer existence in the jungles in the remotest parts of the globe; some people are too poor, too illiterate to be able to join the Internet age.

They just are (unconnected). I cannot, will not condemn these people.

Some however, still dwell in the Old Days from choice; they do so for nefarious purposes. They miss the control they enjoyed over us in the Old Days. They represent Centralised Government, Corporations and Institutions that have had possibly centuries of hegemonic rule and control eroded by the world brought by the Internet.

I aim my pejorative use of Old Days at them.

Economically, the Old Days are dead. Any move to return to them will cause us to lose more than our Facebook friends (or whatever). Attempts to return us to the Old Days, let's call it Digital Old Days, will spell economic ruin for years to come.

We've had a taste of the Digital Old Days. The recent global banking and financial crisis stemmed from playing Old Days rules in the age of the Internet.

_We have been warned._
